.\" 
.\" Author: Cyril Huang 2024
.\"

.TH gyoza 8 "multiboot creator" 2-18-2024
.SH NAME

gyoza \- A utility for creating USB booting device with multiple
Live/Installation OS
.SH SYNOPSIS

gyoza command [argv] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gyoza creates a USB booting device or device image file with management of
GRUB menu system for booting a Live ISO or netboot/pxeboot installation images.
.PP
It supports pre-defined supported Linux distros downloaded from latest release
of ISO/netboot images what vendors provided. The other popular 386 BSD,
SysemV distriubtions and FreeDOS are supported if they provide live ISO or
netboot ability images.
.PP
gyoza could also import ESXi/Microsfot Wiindows 7~11 standard ISO into USB
device and the GRUB menu system.
.SH COMMAND SUMMARY
.SS create
create a USB device or image file for gyoza system
.SS download
download pre-defined supported OS and image type
.SS extract
extract required booting files from ISO downloaded
.SS add
add pre-defined supported OS and image type to device
.SS remove
remove pre-defined supported OS and image type to device
.SS update
update pre-defined supported OS and image type to device
.SS remenu
remenu GRUB menu system if something wrong
.SS theme
manage GRUB theme in the device
.SS import
import Other DOS image, ESXi ISO or Mirosoft Windows 7~11
.SS deport
remove DOS image, ESXi ISO or Mirosoft Windows 7~11 from device
.SS supported
list supported distributions and image type
.SS info
information about the device including the deport ID required in deport command
.SS test
test the device/image file created using qemu
.P
for more details info of each command
.HP
gyoza help $command

or
.HP
gyoza $command help
.SH OS/DISTRIBUTION SUPPORTED
2 types of Linux, BSD and SystemV images can be download.
.IP liveiso
usually provide a GUI for assessment of look and feel of X system
and installer also provided. Good for desktop user.
.IP netboot
usually just need kernel and initramfs 2 little small files to quick install
a system with server, security, rescue and so forth essential functionality.
.PP
Actually those are limited by distribution if they provide such images. On
the other hand, due to the FAT32 limitation, live ISO in some distribution
over 4G size will not be considered into supported list.
.SS Linux
.HP
almalinux

netboot
.HP
archlinux

liveiso
.HP
debian

liveiso,netboot
.HP
endeavouros

liveiso
.HP
fedora

liveiso,netboot
.HP
kali

netboot
.HP
kubuntu

liveiso
.HP
linuxmint

liveiso
.HP
mageia

liveiso
.HP
manjaro

liveiso
.HP
mx

liveiso
.HP
opensuse

liveiso
.HP
pearl

liveiso
.HP
rocky

netboot
.HP
steamos

liveiso
.HP
ubuntu

netboot
.SS SysV
.HP
omnios ce

liveiso(only for installation)
.SS BSD
.HP
netbsd

netboot
.HP
openbsd

netboot
.SS DOS
.HP
freedos

fullusb,liteusb
.SH OPTIONS
.SS global options
-l, --log     log level used when running program
.HP
-L, --logfile logfile for logging
.HP
-f, --force   force the operation such as remenu, adding theme.
.HP
-s, --size    size of image file when creating a image device file,
.HP
-h, --help    help
.SS theme options
-A, --add     add theme to device
.HP
-D, --delete  delete theme from device
.HP
-S, --select  select theme in device to be used
.SS test options
-u, --uefi    test with qemu UEFI
.SS import options
-p, --passtpm pass TPM CPU check in Microsoft Windows 11 booting
.SS remenu options
-t, --theme   make theme selection when creating GRUB menu 
.HP
--fs-label    make FAT32 label not default GYOZA
.SH EXAMPLES & PRACTICES
.TP
gyoza create testing.img debian
.TP
gyoza create /dev/sdc archlinux
.TP
gyoza add testing.img manjaro debian:netboot 
.TP
gyoza import /dev/sdc Win11_23H2_English_x64v2.iso
.TP
gyoza import /dev/sdc 
.TP
gyoza theme /dev/sdc default --add --select
.TP
gyoza info /dev/sdc
.TP
gyoza test /dev/sdc
.SH LIMITATIONS
Distributions and type supported actually are from the limitation what vendors
can provide. However, the filesystem is simple clean FAT32 so a live ISO over
4G is not supported either.
.SH COPYRIGHT
GNU GPLv3
